if you don't already know this channel
is not primarily or exclusively book
game of thrones but I do have a playlist
for the stack of Game of Thrones videos
I have been into a Song of Ice and Fire
for just over four years and this is my
girlfriend who's been getting into a
Song of Ice and Fire in the last four
months she's read the Duncan egg
novellas she started reading the main
books and we just watched the first five
seasons of the show
we already did one video reflecting on
seasons 1 to 4
yeah and now we're into season 5 I'm
gonna kick this off with something at a
left field I guess but you know toward
the end of season 4 there's this bizarre
scene that I think is is infamous among
book readers where they sit down and
talk about their mentally disabled
cousin or when smashing the Beatles you
remember that and to me that was really
a sign of the decline and fall of the
show just because thir matically I mean
it has a point there's a philosophical
point being made in that scene but
that's the scene that doesn't happen in
the books at all and it has nothing to
do with the plot it doesn't contribute
to the plot anyway and it also actually
is not a theme that the books are
interested in that was a theme you know
that somatically and philosophically
that was reflecting on the
meaninglessness of life and why do we do
anything this life some other book and
some other movie and some other TV show
could make that point but why here why
now why was this put into season 4 and
for me I mean symbolically that's kind
of the point where the whole TV show
goes off into the land of fanfiction and
where I just feel the producers and
directors and writers just stopped being
really interested in the source material
and we're in our conversations while
we're watching the show it became just
pointless for me to be keeping you
updated with how things different from
the books because it's just like well
everything now is so different from the
book what am I even gonna say say oh
this is like fanfiction was the romance
between Rob and the woman who treated
wounds yeah
the romance so what was it was it just
the direction was Nassif that like what
mm-hmm yeah and just how stupid it was
of Rob to do that I guess you've told me
in the book that he just never has this
interaction with her yeah yeah
completely ruins the relationship
between the phrase and the Starks
right and well yeah I mean in at a time
when you know marriage is political it
just seemed out of place yeah
in the TV show also there seem to be
kind of foreshadowing that led nowhere
there it's suggested that there's
something important about her family
back in volantis it's suggested that
there's something significant about her
writing letters home to her parents then
all that just disappears it's just
snuffed out I mean that okay look
overall with seasons 5 in season 6 which
we're not in - that's a problem - I feel
like I don't even want to what rewatch
season says the officer I've said seen
season 5 before we just saw it again
together and this is a couple years
later for me
ok overall she just say season 5 was not
as bad as I remembered it being I
probably remembered it being so awful
because I was being horrified at how how
far it went on off-book you know how far
how far it deviated from the books um
but you know overcurrent problem is so
now looking forward to season 6 or
looking back at the plot of Robb Stark
and his ill-fated lover and all this
crap it gets a bit meaningless when you
know that these storylines just get
snuffed out when everybody dies you know
whatever potential significance or
meaning Robb Stark's loved life or the
details of the relationship between the
king and Margaery you know is be wedded
wife
you know like knowing that this all ends
with just the you know characters being
stubbed out like cigarettes adds to the
sense of pointless hey mate oh great now
I've just given a plausible reason for
why they had that scene about smashing
the Beatles I guess that is the
philosophy of the of the showrunners as
they're called as the as the director
you know what what is the point of this
show it's kind of like smashing beetles
in the garden they know God what how do
they stay motivated and the viewers are
like Tyrion asking why God we just I
really didn't think that
we just unpacked the hidden meaning of
the Smashing the Beatles scene yeah hmm
all right so I mean you know this season
in watching it again now it is true a
lot of stuff happens like if you're
gonna draw you know they do cram in a
lot of passion a lot of important plot
points and and what-have-you I overall I
have to say it wasn't as bad as I felt
it was the first time I watched it I've
got to say I think one of the one of the
fundamental things you have to
accomplish in writing drama and
directing drama and acting drama is
simply giving the audience the feeling
that these events matter that they're
not pointless and throughout this season
I struggled with a sense of
pointlessness yeah there are these
Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles down in
Dorne you know they're the four femme
fatale and one of them has a spear and
one of them has numchucks and one of
them has a whip and you know they all
fight information and they have theme
music and stuff you know and
mysteriously none of them ever get
injured in a fight right like you know
unlike unlike the brutality of other
scenes yeah this stuff but above all is
my problem isn't that it's corny or
difficult to believe you know it's all
those things and more but the sense of
pointlessness the sense that it doesn't
matter and I you know of course you
could say that's the point it's talked
with the pettiness of revenge or
pointlessness of their own political
ambitions but again unlike the smash the
beetles that the pear the parable of
smashing the beetles this is not a drama
where the characters feel that their own
lives are meaningless germs is the book
and I think he was just an outline if
you write an outline the script okay
Arya Stark does not feel that her life
is Direction that's less or aimless or
meaningless even Brienne of Tarth who
has a kinda aimless plot does not feel
like her life is aimless or meaningless
these are not characters who struggle
with that you know Brienne of Tarth is
ultra you know driven by her oath in her
sense of duty and her since the meaning
of life and what it means to be a good
warrior or good night or whatever you
know did she's this totally Purpose
Driven character and you can go on down
the list you know some of the characters
have a few mo
of misgivings where they sit there and
think what is my life really but anyway
but unlike maybe the bulk of American
fiction this is this is not about people
having a sense of enemy or aimlessness
or purposes innocent life these are
these are almost all characters of a
very strong sense of direction and
purpose and I think we we as viewers
have to have the feeling that their
decisions matter and their their
feelings matter and their sufferings
matter and if for me
even daenerys targaryen dokey did a
great example Daenerys Targaryen
receiving Tyrion for the first time they
kind of just have nothing to talk about
there's kind of just nope they're just
kind of pointless scenes
it just feels pointless and she kind of
approaches him for drinking too much
like oh I need your advice when you can
stop resisting just this kind of little
like yeah if you know if these
were negotiations between the Soviet
Union in the United States in 1976 you
know what I mean you want to see there's
got to be something more meaningful
there's got to be some sense of weight
and consequences to all this and there
really isn't I mean it really seems like
the Narus is just passing the time
between assassination attempts on her
life you know you made a you made a list
coming into this and what was what was
on your mind coming out of this okay
okay okay okay so the the bad the bad
writing awards begin with Tyrians
personal transformation at the brothel
right so okay why is this bad right
number one they're the actual words
spoken in the scene but number two his
personal transformation comes from
nowhere and goes nowhere you know there
were no consequences to that there is
like there is a sense in which there is
no transformation and he's just sitting
there being self feeding and
self-centered and none of that is in the
book the book treats the morality of his
sex life in a totally different way in
the book he basically discovers to his
horror how much different is living in a
slave society
as opposed to dealing with prostitutes
in in a free society but you know
imagine if they had written it instead
so that they're already already came
from somewhere so the minute he gets out
of the box he's spitting and cursing and
saying I'll never lay hands on another
prostitute again where he feels hatred
and self-loathing and he's on edge about
it and then you could have a scene where
he's for whatever reason like Very's
takes him to a brothel and he's just on
edge and you know he feels tempted and
conflicted but he's saying no you know I
can't I can't compromise this way ever
ever again
that would have been compelling drama it
would have had wait and at least it
would have come from somewhere even if
it didn't you know go anywhere I do one
suggestion off the top of my head but
it's see I mean there's always room for
good writing when I've a couple months
ago you showed me one episode from
season six weird Circe's blows up the
room so I know what's going to happen so
maybe this is influencing how I feel
about it but just the transformation of
Cersei it's kind of okay kind of yeah I
don't know phony yeah and kind of
pointless because we know what's gonna
happen like this is just going to be
fuel for her revenge so that's
interesting so for her as someone who
hasn't read the books hasn't read the
books that far you felt that this was
kind of a hollow transformation of
Cersei I mean I guess what they should
have done instead was to portray her as
cynically trying to manipulate the
system was trying to manipulate their
religion which they don't that's true so
that that's interested for her as just a
TV show watcher she so I mean Cersei
does say she had this dream and the gods
appeared to her so you're reading that
is I mean see it would have just taken a
couple of extra lines for her to
commiserate with her maester and for the
maester say look tell them what they
want to hear they'll let you out you
know we'll do this as a cynical ploy
will manipulate you know religious
people are easily employed if you tell
them exactly with
here so they could have played it that
way but I guess you're right that for
someone who's just watching the TV show
instead the feeling is that this is
another kind of hollow transformation
that comes anymore goes nowhere now
another thing this may be kind of
technical I mean I know they got a save
on the budget but it's weird to me what
they do I do sympathise overall I
sympathize that that when you're taking
a book and adapting it for the TV screen
you've got to think about how to save in
the budget if I were doing that
adaptation I would eliminate the horses
as often so just doing okay a plague
killed all the horses just add a line
then we don't have to film anymore with
every time you have horses on camera you
know you're burning through your budget
um but you know they've eliminated
Circe's other lovers for instance I
don't know why they did that
and so the confession so it's like okay
so she just slept with this one guy you
know the fact that she had other lovers
is really significant in the book it's
significant for her relationship to the
religion and it's significant for a
relationship to Jamie because Jamie in
the book has never slept with anyone
aside from Cersei and that was mentioned
the show back when Jaime was tortured by
by the Starks basically when he was a
captive he actually says that explicitly
he says well you know he's maybe
committing a sin in one sense but
another sense he's a he's a good person
because he's kept his vows he's been
true to just this one woman his whole
life that's a big deal that's a big deal
in the books that Jaime is true to his
vows and Cersei is not even though their
vows are pretty twisted up so why
would you save on the budget by getting
rid of four other lovers like doesn't
cost you anything just have them in
there I've got to mention you know they
don't need to they don't you don't need
to have nude scenes for each and every
lover she's with but you don't have it
acknowledge that she has she has a
lovers that's that's definitely a big
deal yeah oh and it was efforts with the
wildlings there for nothing now
yeah I guess
that the Knights Watchers going to kill
all the wildlings but okay okay what's
going to happen but you see that's it
for me on the second watching I felt
like they really kind of justified that
because again watching else the second
time I was watching it more rapidly the
first time I watched it I forget if I
saw it actually when it came out or not
but I so it's spread out over more more
time yes we watch this all in just a
couple of days I mean I felt that
watching it more rapidly in a second
time like this the case for Alistair
Stark is actually pretty strong because
you know as Stannis Baratheon says a
good deed does not wash out the bad the
wildlings as portrayed on the show or
guilty of genocide they're a genocide
alluding and pillaging and raping band
of bandits for a better word
why so what washes that out what what's
the basis for the peace of the truce of
the the cooperation I felt like even
though they're down to 50 men the guys
in the Nights Watch are within their
rights they know this is not acceptable
you know yeah even if they were you know
if the if the if the wildlings were
being offered some kind of banishment or
something but no they're kind of being
offered the suite of Steel the Nights
Watch has to offer right but the people
at the Nights Watch haven't seen the
army of the Dead so I don't think
they're fully understanding how much the
wildlings having them help the army help
saves the Nights Watch oh okay but
there's a beautiful moral parallelism
there cuz I mean the point is the
futility of saying the enemy of my enemy
is my friend Jon Snow can't just work
with Ramsay Bolton because the army the
desert they should but they can't yeah
you're right so why did the Nights Watch
have to work with the wildlings just
because the army the desperate you know
the enemy of my enemy is not my friend I
mean I think throughout political
science and political history that's
always one of the great riddles you have
to stare at World War two amazingly made
the United States and Joseph Stalin and
two allies and this had knock-on
consequences for you know about 1
billion people for the next 50 years at
all these amazing long-term consequences
why well they ended up being outright
against Hitler on-again off-again
alliance it's a more complex history
than most people know so you know yeah I
just think you
so in the TV show that's not really
clear in the books the whole issue of
Davos I think his fingers cut off you
know it's very clear Stannis's moral
position is the fact that you've done
something good does not excuse you for
something else that you've done we've
got questions with that with morally
ambivalent characters like like Tyrion
and so on to the fact that you can help
me now right yeah right
sure yeah he betrayed Daenerys
sure and his punishment is apparently
that his body is being gradually turned
into stone I mean I which is not in the
book either by the way guys yeah what's
like it's impossible to discuss this
season in terms of difference did you
book and show so I mentioned my
girlfriend it's because it's not in the
book it's sorry it's in the book but not
in the show at all there's also this
very attractive blonde female character
in the book who's just called Val Val
the so called welding welding princess
she's not a princess and she is a
significant romantic interest for John
they have a complex carefully written
romance non romance they never kiss but
you know there are a lot of significant
silences in the air and each of them
knows that they kind of could get
married they're kind of an option for
the other and they have some interesting
dialogues why did you cut that like
having a good-looking blonde on set is
cheap having 50 horses on set is
expensive you know what I mean it's why
I understand that they need to budget
but that to me was was a really bad call
and in terms of him being killed for
being a wildling lover well it's also
significant it's not just past tense
okay so you know he had some
relationship in the woods there's this
good-looking blonde in Castle black
right now whom people say he's sleeping
with you know where it's actually
plausible they say and they you know
they do kind of there's some kind of
relationship between them right it also
it also been easy to see it would been
interesting to see what you did after he
died if you had this blonde who was
maybe in love there maybe just liked him
you know weeping over the corpse of this
blonde wildling weeping over the corpse
of Jon Snow well that's that's worth
filming you know that's television
yeah yeah oh yeah the the plot with
Littlefinger giving Sansa to Bolton yeah
not really making sense it's right okay
so I mean this thing Wiggin weary wash
this and we wash them rapidly watched
all these episodes in a small number of
days I thought the show in the first two
three seasons did a pretty good job of
making it clear to you that up to a
certain point
Littlefinger's objective actually is to
kill Ned Stark and get back together
with Kalin it's subtle but it's there a
little finger one way or another he
still wants to sleep with Catelyn right
up to you know he's doing the
negotiations with Renly and you know
there's a just say that's pretty clear
then Catelyn dies and his objective
instead becomes apparently to sleep with
or marry Sansa and then at this point
the plot just makes no sense and I mean
spoilers I think was in the the episode
you saw at the end of season six but he
affirms there he is verbally says like
his objective is to get with Sansa and
we've had you know we've had a couple of
different kisses between them and so on
and you know it's like so it's
explicitly declared that that's his
objective and then he gives her up to
marry Ramsay for what yeah you know it
makes absolutely no sense there's there
is no way to make it end so what there's
this thing where you have characters on
camera explaining that the plot Nick
makes no sense but it we better yeah so
we have two examples of this but it
would be better to have a plot that I
should make sense right so you have
Littlefinger kind of openly reflecting
with Sansa like hey this doesn't make
sense but do it anyway like don't worry
don't worry you'll have him wrapped
around your little finger
by the time Stannis shows up and kills
you all like so so right so his actual
plot as stated explicitly on the subtext
when the text is if you seduce this guy
things will go really well for you when
Stannis shows up and kills him
what the let that's a reason not to
seduce him yeah seduce him so he dies
happy like what sense does that plot
make but we get this kind of dialogue
reflect explaining to us how am i the
plot makes no sense okay and Jaime
Lannister right was traveling with his
Bron Bron Bron is asking why are you why
are you going why is this your mission
yeah why why are you the ninja to go and
break into Dorne right wrong breaks it
all down for us why why don't you send
an army why don't you send 50 guys why
don't you send a guy like me instead of
a guy like you well you have one hand
and a famous face so all the reasons why
that plot makes no sense or unpack for
us by the writers thanks writers to do
it but we're doing it anyway yeah like
that right yeah yeah yeah daily right
right so the one thing I give them at
least the Dorn plot has some colour I
was complaining all season so many of
the scenes were black on black and they
even have the the red woman who's
supposed to be wearing red at all times
it's so religion it's an article of
faith that she wears red at all times
she's wearing a long black dress so for
people who aren't hyper in the show most
I'm only the faces tell you where you
are you'd cut from Castle black to
Winterfell and they're both black on
black on black black clothes black walls
you know you can have wall hangings you
have rugs you can have a you know you
have a tapestry you have plants you do
anything you want with color composition
almost everywhere was black on black on
black
except Dorne so like the outdoor scenes
you got with Jaime Lannister at least
there was some color on screen because
for most of this season it was kind of
pathetic and you didn't even notice the
costuming or anything else and that is a
contrast if you remember back to when we
had that ray of sunshine Joffrey
Baratheon on camera
Joffrey brought a lot of color both
literally and figuratively you know joy
he was a colorful character and he had
colorful costumes and
a lot of colorful action okay so for you
as someone who's basically new to the
cult and culture of Game of Thrones I
know this is like a ridiculous question
was there anything really meaningful
about this season that puts it above and
beyond watching a season of friends or
Seinfeld or The Simpsons well you know I
mean that honestly because it's it's
true in a sense a TV show like this
doesn't have to be better than the
Simpsons or something you know I can
just be junk for TV but the reason why
there is this fandom is the sense that
this is a work of literature that means
more than yeah it's supposed to mean
more than you know just made for
broadcast junk you know I guess maybe
what we talked about just just a few
minutes ago talking about no no I hadn't
I hadn't thought about it the way you
did with the Castle black and how the
men killed Jon Snow I hadn't thought
about that way so I said it is kind of
meaningful that politically nothing like
immediately comes to mind but maybe if I
think about it well I thought I thought
there was an interesting kind of
breaking moment for you when the black
dragon returned is deus ex my ex Matt
you know comes back where you were just
go falling and laughing at the screen
you couldn't take the show seriously
anymore you know what I mean now you
know its inner I don't know I mean what
does the show need to be taken seriously
at all times you know could they think
they're kind of questions about that how
seriously can you take a show that at
this point has magical poisons and
magical dragons and you know all the
stuff with poisons and antidotes is so
ridiculous but you know I mean I say for
me the problem is the sense of point and
pointlessness when you feel it's about
something meaningful when you feel
there's a point that justifies you
tolerating that the dragons and the
faceless men and all this stuff yeah
so I'm not the biggest fan okay look
let's talk a little bit Arya's story
line instead of a little bit marine
about Daenerys I am NOT the biggest fan
of aria storyline in the books and we
talked about this little bit so Aria
goes to train to become a secret super
ninja and I remember a comment from
another youtuber who said wow you know a
few years ago this whole thing with the
faceless men was really mysterious and
like it ceased to be mysterious fast you
think it stopped being interesting a
long time ago you know when when they
took away though the intrigue and the
sense of you know but like in terms of a
training montage or something I don't
think this this works really well having
her scrub dead bodies and have genuinely
meaningless dialogues about what does it
mean to be nobody like this you know
this is what they're taking up taking up
screen time with I felt the only
strength of that in the book of arias
storyline was actually the kind of
sketch you got of Bravo society of the
middle class in Braavos and the
different you really got a sense of
Braavos as a city and the rich and the
poor and again frankly a lot of emphasis
on the middle class the traders and the
insurance brokers and the shippers and
the people who are part of the theater
and what have you you got a sense of
Braavos and actually if you being honest
with yourself
Arya's time in Braavos is the happiest
and most colorful time' for a short life
and i think there's a lot of indications
the book that that's true and here
everything is bleak everything is black
everything is depressing and you know
and it's completely philosophically
bankrupt you know there's there's
nothing interesting about this religion
of this cold enemy okay look again I
think the showrunners they maybe don't
know what the author's critique of
religion is or why he's doing this I
think in the book the author really
takes the time to show you that the men
behind the masks are human all too human
one of them he runs the local theater
there are several theaters in the city
that we find out out about they do have
different kind of day jobs and
ultimately we do see them sitting around
kind of know better than the Mafia
dealing with these contracts to take
people's lives their religious
motivated assassins but they're still
assassins working for money you know so
there there is a pretty heavy critique
of religion there that when you take
away the the gilded exterior when you
just look past the surface these are
ordinary guys doing ordinary jobs
there's nothing glamorous or okay I was
gonna say there's nothing Supernatural
about it even though the religion has
supernatural powers it's still this kind
of human all too human critique of
religion and this show I mean there's
nothing like that there is it's just
really pointless and and also look but
let's mention so the actual idea of it
being the many-faced God not in the
faceless God for the many-faced God it
is a critique of all religion were
explicitly shown and told they have the
statues from kind of every religion in
the world there including amusingly some
statues and religions on other planets
that are in the authors of their writing
because also science fiction author but
anyway uh so you know this idea that all
religion is just based on a fear of
death and that the gods are store our
fables that you tell children to help
them rationalize the fear of death that
also is a very heavy critique of
religion and self explanatory in a sense
but well yeah what you get like one line
or something yeah one line from the man
that was able to bring somebody back to
life after what was going to see the man
who trains her to fight with a sword
slvio Pharrell her sword instructor he
gets just a couple lines about that but
doesn't you were thinking actually the
man who comes back from the dead and
just says there is no afterlife there's
just there's just darkness and so on
yeah yeah so in a show that is so much
about religion no I was thinking about
the the man that said who actually does
the bringing back to life Oh processes
that he for so long did not believe in
religion he thought it was a story to
tell
yes but yeah also also that right yeah
there's nothing after that's just
blackness I mean I think again I've made
a whole separate video about this I have
a playlist of Game of Thrones videos
even if religion has magical superpowers
it's still just a fable to make you
that's the all this point is putting you
in
the world even if they can literally
raise the dead it's still even
if they can literally make magical
shadow demons that kill your enemies
it's still a it's still a
swindle and it's still killing you you
know it's still destroying you you know
yeah and I mean I guess you know we
don't we don't get any fill up
philosophizing about it of course and we
don't get any sense that Stannis's men
lose faith in Him because he sacrificed
his own daughter there was never any
attention paid to the religious tension
within Stannis's army which is again a
major critique of religion you know
right right yeah it's just they just
literally have someone's stand there and
tell Stannis like the men took the
horses and left like that's it so you
don't get a sense of it being religious
or that you know like the majority of
Stannis has fought followers don't
actually dig human sacrifice so what
have you you know we live in China this
has been filmed in Hong Yoon and shine
on the China Myanmar reporter and you
know some of the earliest examples we
have of Chinese writing when you look at
the history of the writing system are
these sacrificial tablets tablets
concerning human sacrifice and and that
kind of ritual and they're really sad
they're really pathetic to read and
you're they often say they're kind of
written in very broken sentences you
have to fill in the gaps through my so
obviously I don't I'm not I'm not a
scholar of ancient Chinese when you're
reading you know academic articles
explaining them and they say things like
you know ancestors because they're
sacrificing their ancestors are in
effect gods in this in this religion and
if the ancestors please send son you
know we will kill one and it will it
gives like the rank we're killing a Duke
or something you know we're giving a
human sacrifice of a high ranking male
in order to get more sunlight
apparently it would presumably meaning
better crops these really pathetic you
know reflections of people living in you
know darkest ignorance and engaging in
human sacrifice just with you know
pathetic fears and hopes and obviously
fear of starvation and what-have-you
so anyway I mean I just said that is
kind of a deep topic in itself yeah kind
of a missed opportunity for the show to
do anything with that
right yeah we just see how devastated
his way is because she commits suicide
right at the very you know at the
crucial moment where the daughter is
being lit on fire you know she she has a
change of heart yeah she doesn't want
her daughter to be sacrificed but yeah
well when she was a true believer right
so but anyway but as I say I mean we
don't really even get kind of one line
of dialogue reflecting on that so again
kind of a missed opportunity and you
don't you don't in the next season
either in case you think it's gonna be
really a fter Stannis is dead because
Santa is killed in this season already
so no we don't get some kind of undead
medic meditation on those issues anyway
I mean we can wrap it up there I mean I
had a few more things we were gonna talk
also just about marine yeah the whole
season it just seemed like more action
not meaning you know yeah they packed in
a lot of action a lot of fight scenes a
lot of battles yeah yeah I mean in the
books
each chapters written from a different
point of view and if you're reading
Daenerys chapters on marine you get the
sense that this is a teenage girl
because she is still a teenager in the
books who doesn't know what's going on
who doesn't understand politics who
doesn't understand war or armies and is
making terrible decisions which she
herself doesn't perceive as bad and you
know she's haunted by all kinds of
different oblah she's haunted by her own
sexuality she's haunted by the memory of
a big prophecy she was given this great
line remember your remember who you
really are
whatever that means that she's kind of
you know skulking around and she feels
like she's playing a role she's dressing
up in this other cultures clothing and
then we have a contrast between her
point of view and Barristan Selmy point
of view so Barristan Selmy on the show
is not a major character and they kill
him off in the book he's a much more
important character and even though
Barristan Selmy is self-doubting like in
his chapters or it's from his point of
view he sort of grumbles about how he's
an old man he's getting too old for this
she's a great trope in American cinema
right like every cop movie I'm getting
too old
yeah yeah you know his knees are
starting to hurt and you know but as
soon as we see it from Barristan Selmy
point of view everything's crystal clear
then no kamae no who's on what side
embarrassed in some he does do some
detective work in effect but he figures
out what the political situation is and
he makes the right calls then we have
this contrast between the world as she
saw it and the world is Harrison Sami
sees it and we live in a world where
teenage bimbos you know become coming to
power whether it's Joffrey I mean
Joffrey is male we but he's a teenage
bimbo he's kind of in her head he
doesn't you know he's just an idiot and
a psychopath or it's Daenerys or
what-have-you it's actually not
Barristan Selmy it's only to the extent
to which Barristan Selmy can charm and
influence Daenerys that he can have any
any influence in the world now okay look
there's a lot more to it than that this
is one kind of shallow comment I'd say I
mean I think everyone picks up on this
if you read it during the time it was
published it's very obvious that george
RR martin is reflecting on issues from
America's war in Iraq and Afghanistan in
terms of one's hood and to some extent
indirectly America's experience in in
Vietnam to some extent also even the
British experience in Ireland with the
Irish troubles is in there so there's a
lot of that to to chew on in Mereen and
I think the TV show gives you absolutely
none of that I think I don't think you
get any set I mean there's no there's no
critique of george w bush that you can
pull out of the show and there really
could be I mean there you know there
really could be it wouldn't be hard I'm
you know she's imposing her idea of
freedom on this foreign culture that
doesn't really want it and then within
that the only people who want it as in
France in 1789 really want to chop off
heads they say won't live if you're
gonna give us our freedom that means you
take away the freedom of the slave
masters and that means pretty much in
most cases cutting off their heads you
know this is a war for all for all and
instead she literally puts on the
clothing of the slave masters and sits
in the throne of the slave masters and
is reestablishing they're their
traditional rule and her marriage to
that guy is a much bigger deal in the
book too because he's really he's really
becoming their King again so they're
reestablishing so massive
so yeah I don't know somehow they
managed to just drain the life the
intellectual energy and I mean even the
kind of to my mind a very obvious
political meaning of that and look on
the in the books to the material book
torture is meaningful
Daenerys starts off you know wanting to
abolish slavery and not believing in
torture and she goes on to be someone
who relies on torture to get information
herself and making all these exceptions
and kinda sorta bringing back slavery
like she allows slavery to be traded to
the dogs she's trying to make peace with
these neighboring slave holding kingdoms
so yeah she sells out her own principles
in a bunch of ways but the use of
torture and the way it's reported in the
books is much different the show on the
show we just get some glib mentions
where you know her her lover Dario Dario
de Haris and Dario is just like oh how
do you know that Dario because I
questioned him you know and it's kind of
alluded to in this joking way that he
tortures people and gets information
well it's no joke I mean it's a big
heavy issue in the books and it was a
yeah and it's a big heavy issue in the
decades in which these books were
written in public the United States his
use of torture and it yielding dubious
information you know Iraq and don't
don't quote me on that Google check
Google I forget it feels it feels like
15 years but yeah yeah yeah it's been
it's been an absurdly long time yeah the
gaps between between the books coming on
but this is very much been written
during during that span of American
history with those being the issues on
his mind and and Vietnam or being the
formative political issue those youth
okay so my final decent fight is not as
bad as I remembered it being but Wow to
call it a kind of missed opportunity and
it's a whole bunch of missed
opportunities all right babes sorry I
you see I've exhausted my girlfriend
this is why I have to come on YouTube
and talk about it because obviously my
capacity to talk about Game of Thrones
far always hurts I don't know you're
warmed up now for season seven right the
new season is coming out in just a
couple of days but you know you know how
it ends it ends with a bang and a
whimper
that was the final episode oh yeah yeah
yeah where they blow up the blow of the
church and thus wipe out all of these
storylines pretty much all that become a
compliment oh yeah
high hopes for the next season you won't
know that what what do you what do you
think you're gonna get it in the in the
next season in season seven I don't know
no bigger dragons bigger body count more
horses and fewer I guess I guess that's
what its gonna be is zombie battle
action we have no idea what the books
are now over I mean I'm sorry the book
there's no more book so we can't do book
to show comparisons anymore the last
episode of this season pretty much
catches you up with the only material
that's that's based in the books so you
know you're out here with it a ladder
room without a safety net
no idea but yeah I guess all of us who
love the books are just kind of wincing
like I hope this isn't absolutely awful
on that note tune in next week